# Getting started
Before you can publish your app bundles to the play store with this gradle plugin, you have to have:
- A google service account with the rights to publish and modify releases
- Already at least one release done on the track you want to publish to (not covered here)

[How to create and configure a service account](CONFIGURATION_OF_GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT.md)
 
 ## General app configuration
 The plugin requires the appVersionCode to be defined in the `gradle.properties` file in your project.  
 Per default the key for this is `appVersionCode` but you can change it if you want (read below).
 
 Configure the plugin in the app's `build.gradle.kts` file.
 
 ## Configuration
 ```kotlin
androidpublisher {
    credentialsJsonFile = "path/to/your/service/account/credentials.json" // <- required: relative or absolute path to the credentials.json file for the service account
    releaseNotesFile = "path/to/your/releaseNotes.csv" // <- optional: relative or absolute path to the releaseNotes.csv file for the service account. Defaults to <projectRootDir>/releaseNotes.csv
    shouldThrowIfNoReleaseNotes = true // <- optional, defaults true: defines whether an exception is thrown or not if no releaseNotes for the appVersionCode is found
    enableGenerateVersionCode = true // <- optional, defaults true: defines if the appVersionCode should be generated (read below)
    appVersionCodeKey = "yourCustomKey" // <- optional, defaults "appVersionCode": key under which the app's version code is stored in the gradle.properties file
} 
```

### Version code generation
If you enable the `enableGenerateVersionCode` (enabled by default) the app's version code for the playstore gets 
autogenerated.  
It queries the currently published version code from the playstore and the one you defined in the `gradle.properties` 
and takes the higher one.  
It uses this version code +1 and writes it into the `gradle.properties`.

Example:
```
playStoreVersion=23
gradle.properties version=35

results in 35+1 = 36
```

### Release Notes
If you don't want to supply any release notes, you have to set `shouldThrowIfNoReleaseNotes` to false. Otherwise it will
 throw an exception if no release notes for the versionCode are present.  
If you want to specify another location for the releaseNotes csv file or another name, you can set `releaseNotesFile` 
to point to that file.  

The format **hast to be** the following for the spreadsheet which you export as csv to work:

| VersionCode | en-gb                       | de-ch               | otherLanguages       |
|-------------|-----------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| 1           | Some release notes in UTF-8 | Some text in german | Other languages text |
| 2           | Some release notes in UTF-8 | Some text in german | Other languages text |
|             |                             |                     |                      |


## Usage
The plugin creates for each App flavour and build type two gradleTasks: `generateVersionCodeForX` and `uploadXToYTrack` 
where `X` is your appVersion and `Y` is the track in the google play store to where you can publish the app to.

Example:  
`generateVersionCodeForProductionRelease`  
`uploadProductionReleaseToInternalTrack`

These tasks can then be used in your CI/CD setup or triggered manually (as long as the apps signing information is on 
your local dev machine).